@def title = "What Is Race"
@def slug = "01202021041928-what-is-race"
@def tags = ["zettel", "race", "archive"]
@def description = "Overviews on what race is as a concept"

@def rss_title = "What Is Race"
@def rss_description = "Overviews on what race is as a concept"
@def rss_pubdate = Date(2021, 1, 19)


What Is Race
=========

**Date:** January 19 2021

**Summary:** Overviews on what race is as a concept

**Keywords:** ##zettel #race #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

**Race:** organizing inequalities across economic, environmental, social and political domains of human interactions [1]–[3]

*THOUGHTS: I am somewhat confused by this definition of race. Perhaps ask someone for further explanation on the matter.*

**Whiteness:** power, privilege and identity organized along white racialized ideologies and practices. [3], [4]

## References

## References

[1] J. Acker, “Inequality regimes: Gender, class, and race in organizations,” Gend. Soc., vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 441–464, 2006.

[2] A. Sriprakash and S. Walker, “Questions of Race in Education and Development,” presented at the Questions of Race in Education and Development Workshop, 2018.

[3] G. Marchais, P. Bazuzi, and A. Amani Lameke, “‘The data is gold, and we are the gold-diggers’: Whiteness, race and contemporary academic research in eastern DRC,” Critical African Studies, vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 372–394, Sep. 2020, doi: 10.1080/21681392.2020.1724806.

[4] D. van Zyl-Hermann and J. Boersema, “Introduction: The politics of whiteness in Africa,” Africa, vol. 87, no. 4, pp. 651–661, 2017.
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
