+++
title = "Risk of Dying from COVID19"
slug = "03102020052237-covid19-dying"
tags = ["zettel", "covid19", "health", "disease", "epidemiology", "archive"]
description = "Note on the current fatality when acquiring COVID19."
rss_title = "Risk of Dying from COVID19"
rss_description = "Note on the current fatality when acquiring COVID19."
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 3, 10)
+++



Risk of Dying from COVID19
=========

**Date:** March 10 2020

**Summary:** Note on the current fatality when acquiring COVID19.

**Keywords:** ##zettel #covid19 #health #disease #epidemiology  #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

Several estimates have suggested that the risk of dying, for those infected with covid-19 and showing its flu-like symptoms, is around 1 or 2 percent. Elderly adults have a considerably higher risk of both becoming infected and dying, as do people with compromised immune systems. The estimates might change as new data arrive, but the range of 1 to 2 percent for fatalities among the symptomatic seems to be the consensus for now. The overall fatality rate for people infected with covid-19 will be lower "possibly much lower" when we know how many people are infected but asymptomatic.

> *Marc Lipsitch is a professor of epidemiology and director of the Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health.*

## How To Cite

 Zelko, Jacob. _Risk of Dying from COVID19_. [https://jacobzelko.com/03102020052237-covid19-dying](https://jacobzelko.com/03102020052237-covid19-dying). March 10 2020.
## References
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
