+++
title = "WFDB Record"
slug = "03102020061429-wfdb-format"
tags = ["summary", "wfdb", "dataformat", "storage", "healthcare", "opensource", "standard", "archive"]
description = "Overview of the Waveform Database (WFDB) record format"
rss_title = "WFDB Record"
rss_description = "Overview of the Waveform Database (WFDB) record format"
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 3, 10)
+++



WFDB Record
=========

**Date:** March 10 2020

**Summary:** Overview of the Waveform Database (WFDB) record format

**Keywords:** ##summary #wfdb #dataformat #storage #healthcare #opensource #standard  #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available 

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

### Overview

The Waveform Database (WFDB) Library is a record management system to handle already existing databases - it itself is not a database but a collection of tools to handle databases that follow the WFDB format. [1] Furthermore, WFDB can be used for viewing, analyzing, and creating recordings of physiological signals [2].

### How It Works

The way that the WFDB record format works is that it utilizes [pg 1, @moodyWFDBProgrammerGuide2019]:

  * **Header Files** to specify the characteristics of a signal (sampling frequency, etc.)
  * **Annotation Files** to record annotations corresponding to a signal (generally kept in time with the rest of the signal)

### Example Application - ECG Data

For example, when working with ECG data, the format utilizes the header and annotation files as follows [pg 2 - 3, @moodyWFDBProgrammerGuide2019]:

  * **Header Files** - could contain information about lead count, calibration format, etc.
  * **Annotation Files** - could contain other information such as beat positions.

### Miscellaneous Notes

  * WFDB is considered a standard data format within the research world, and has found application in industry as well.
  * The WFDB format is generally used for ECG records - however, it can extend to other data formats.
  * A possible alternative to the WFDB record format is the European Data Format+ (EDF+) [see @garciamartinezLoadingPlottingFiltering2017 for more information].
## How To Cite

 Zelko, Jacob. _WFDB Record_. [https://jacobzelko.com/03102020061429-wfdb-format](https://jacobzelko.com/03102020061429-wfdb-format). March 10 2020.
## References

[1] G. Moody, “WFDB Programmer’s Guide,” Mar. 08, 2019. https://www.physionet.org/physiotools/wpg/wpg.pdf (accessed Mar. 17, 2020).

[2] C. A. García Martínez et al., “Loading, Plotting, and Filtering RR Intervals,” in Heart Rate Variability Analysis with the R package RHRV, Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2017, pp. 15–28. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-65355-6_2.
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
