@def title = "Antifragility"
@def slug = "03172020033742-antifragility"
@def tags = ["zettel", "antifragile", "philosophy", "fragile", "robust", "model", "archive"]
@def description = "An overview on Nassim Taleb's thoughts on Antifragility."

@def rss_title = "Antifragility"
@def rss_description = "An overview on Nassim Taleb's thoughts on Antifragility."
@def rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 3, 17)


Antifragility
=========

**Date:** March 17 2020

**Summary:** An overview on Nassim Taleb's thoughts on Antifragility.

**Keywords:** ##zettel #antifragile #philosophy #fragile #robust #model #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

Nassim Taleb coined the word "antifragile" to describe systems or objects that, rather than not adapting to an environment, adapts and improves over time as a function of perturbation found in a variable environment. 

Antifragile systems or objects gain from disorder and thrives on volatility and variability within reason for that given system.

### Examples from Taleb's Model

1. An antifragile system is not like a coffee mug - a coffee mug does not get stronger the more you use it but rather is at risk the more you use it. As a result, a coffee mug is **fragile**.
2. A cannonball however is not antifragile. You can shoot it out of a cannon, drop it, carry it, etc. Within reason, it is not going to change or adapt to the situation - it is **robust**.
3. A person however is **antifragile**. Before a person can lift a bale of hay, they must first carry the lamb to pasture. Meaning, a person can adapt and change themselves to fit to the situation at hand - though, not immediately. They can make these changes proactively or anticipate needs for a given situation and adapt accordingly.

## References

## References
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
