+++
title = "Common Causes of Artifact in EDA Signals"
slug = "03272020061037-eda-artifacts"
tags = ["zettel", "eda", "signalprocessing", "biomarker", "artifact", "noise", "skin", "archive"]
description = "An overview of common artifacts in EDA signals"
rss_title = "Common Causes of Artifact in EDA Signals"
rss_description = "An overview of common artifacts in EDA signals"
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 3, 27)
+++



Common Causes of Artifact in EDA Signals
=========

**Date:** March 27 2020

**Summary:** An overview of common artifacts in EDA signals

**Keywords:** ##zettel #eda #signalprocessing #biomarker #artifact #noise #skin #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

EDA artifacts can come from the electrodes used to collect EDA data [1]–[3]; examples being:

  * Inconsistent pressure of the electrode to the skin
  * Physical activity (such as pressure or movement)
  * Arbitrary changes made to securing the device
  * Contextual/ambient factors (such as humidity, temperature, etc. Anything that can cause excessive EDA signals beyond a device's detection abilities)

Overloading a device that records EDA signals is a special kind of artifact called "bridging" or "saturation". [4]
## How To Cite

 Zelko, Jacob. _Common Causes of Artifact in EDA Signals_. [https://jacobzelko.com/03272020061037-eda-artifacts](https://jacobzelko.com/03272020061037-eda-artifacts). March 27 2020.
## References

[1] C. Tronstad, G. K. Johnsen, S. Grimnes, and Ø. G. Martinsen, “A study on electrode gels for skin conductance measurements,” Physiol. Meas., vol. 31, no. 10, p. 1395, 2010.

[2] S. Taylor, N. Jaques, Weixuan Chen, S. Fedor, A. Sano, and R. Picard, “Automatic identification of artifacts in electrodermal activity data,” in 2015 37th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC), Aug. 2015, pp. 1934–1937. doi: 10.1109/EMBC.2015.7318762.

[3] I. R. Kleckner et al., “Simple, Transparent, and Flexible Automated Quality Assessment Procedures for Ambulatory Electrodermal Activity Data,” IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng., vol. 65, no. 7, pp. 1460–1467, Jul. 2018, doi: 10.1109/TBME.2017.2758643.

[4] S. for P. R. A. H. C. on E. Measures et al., “Publication recommendations for electrodermal measurements,” Psychophysiology, vol. 49, no. 8, pp. 1017–1034, 2012.
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
