+++
title = "Call Center Stress Recognition with Person-Specific Models"
slug = "03272020083421-call-center"
tags = ["bibliography", "eda", "mit", "affectivecomputing", "medialab", "stress", "archive"]
description = "Assessment of stress in call center employees using skin conductance sensors to measure SCR/EDA."
rss_title = "Call Center Stress Recognition with Person-Specific Models"
rss_description = "Assessment of stress in call center employees using skin conductance sensors to measure SCR/EDA."
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 3, 27)
+++



Call Center Stress Recognition with Person-Specific Models
=========

**Date:** March 27 2020

**Summary:** Assessment of stress in call center employees using skin conductance sensors to measure SCR/EDA.

**Keywords:** ##bibliography #eda #mit #affectivecomputing #medialab #stress #archive

Bibliography
==========

J. Hernandez, R. R. Morris, and R. W. Picard, "Call Center Stress Recognition with Person-Specific Models," in Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction, vol. 6974, S. D’Mello, A. Graesser, B. Schuller, and J.-C. Martin, Eds. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2011, pp. 125–134.

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

They had a small cohort of nine individuals working at a call center using skin conductance sensors to measure EDA. They used exponential smoothing and chose a smoothing factor, $\alpha$, of $0.8$ – it was unclear why this was chosen. They also elected to normalize the skin conductance signals on each individual between $0$ and $1$ to reduce variability between the cohort members. 

## References

## References
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
