+++
title = "Criteria for Creating a Note in the Zettelkasten"
slug = "03302020005409-note-criteria"
tags = ["zettel", "zettelkasten", "information", "knowledge", "criteria", "questions", "archive"]
description = "Simple criteria for when and how to add notes to the Zettelkasten"
rss_title = "Criteria for Creating a Note in the Zettelkasten"
rss_description = "Simple criteria for when and how to add notes to the Zettelkasten"
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 3, 30)
+++



Criteria for Creating a Note in the Zettelkasten
=========

**Date:** March 30 2020

**Summary:** Simple criteria for when and how to add notes to the Zettelkasten

**Keywords:** ##zettel #zettelkasten #information #knowledge #criteria #questions #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

### Selecting Information for a Zettel

  * Does this not add to the overall nature of the Zettelkasten? [1]
  * What sort of topics could this open in the Zettelkasten? Are these topics you are willing to invest into? [1]
  * Where does this new note possibly fit into in the rest of the conversation with your Zettelkasten? [1]
  * Can this information be added to an already existing Zettel or theme? [1]

### Zettel Creation

  * Do you have enough information do write a new zettel?[1]
  * Do you understand the information enough in the zettel you are creating? [1]
  * Each Zettel should fit onto a screen.  [1]
## How To Cite

 Zelko, Jacob. _Criteria for Creating a Note in the Zettelkasten_. [https://jacobzelko.com/03302020005409-note-criteria](https://jacobzelko.com/03302020005409-note-criteria). March 30 2020.
## References

[1] S. Ahrens, How to Take Smart Notes: One Simple Technique to Boost Writing, Learning and Thinking – for Students, Academics and Nonfiction Book Writers. 2017.
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
