+++
title = "EDA as a Biomarker"
slug = "04092020153616-eda-biomarker"
tags = ["zettel", "eda", "biomarker", "healthcare", "biosystems", "sensors", "scl", "skin", "scr", "response", "archive"]
description = "How EDA is used generally as a biomarker."
rss_title = "EDA as a Biomarker"
rss_description = "How EDA is used generally as a biomarker."
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 4, 9)
+++



EDA as a Biomarker
=========

**Date:** April 9 2020

**Summary:** How EDA is used generally as a biomarker.

**Keywords:** ##zettel #eda #biomarker #healthcare #biosystems #sensors #scl #skin #scr #response #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

The term *EDA* is often used synonymously in academic literature to refer to its usage as a non-invasive biomarker to investigate physiological arousal. EDA is generally recorded using two small electrodes and are usually [1], [2] can be placed on the:

  * Fingers
  * Palms
  * Feet

These electrodes complete a circuit across the skin – the skin acts as a variable resistor – and then [measure changes in skin conductance](https://jacobzelko.com/03242020003215-eda-explained) (see note for more information on what variables EDA monitors). After the EDA signal is collected from the electrodes, the signal is typically (by convention) decomposed into skin conductance level [SCL](https://jacobzelko.com/04092020161622-skin-conductance) and skin conductance responses [SCR](https://jacobzelko.com/04092020162632-skin-response) (click links to see definitions of both).
## How To Cite

 Zelko, Jacob. _EDA as a Biomarker_. [https://jacobzelko.com/04092020153616-eda-biomarker](https://jacobzelko.com/04092020153616-eda-biomarker). April 9 2020.
## References

[1] R. Kocielnik, N. Sidorova, F. M. Maggi, M. Ouwerkerk, and J. H. Westerink, “Smart technologies for long-term stress monitoring at work,” in Proceedings of the 26th IEEE international symposium on computer-based medical systems, 2013, pp. 53–58.

[2] M. van Dooren, J. H. Janssen, et al., “Emotional sweating across the body: Comparing 16 different skin conductance measurement locations,” Physiol. Behav., vol. 106, no. 2, pp. 298–304, 2012.
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
