+++
title = "Hebbian Theory"
slug = "05252020222041-hebbian-theory"
tags = ["zettel", "finish", "archive"]
description = "An overview on what Hebbian Theory actually is"
rss_title = "Hebbian Theory"
rss_description = "An overview on what Hebbian Theory actually is"
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 5, 25)
+++



Hebbian Theory
=========

**Date:** May 25 2020

**Summary:** An overview on what Hebbian Theory actually is

**Keywords:** ##zettel ##finish #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

Hebbian Learning discusses the simultaneous activation of cells leading to increased synaptic strengthening between those cells. (Also known as Associative Learning)

Hebbian theory discusses the way neurons may associate or connect themselves together to become engrams.

Mirror neurons present an interesting question regarding how do people have neurons that are both affected when executing an action and listening to or witnessing someone else execute a related action.

Hebbian theory would predict that as individuals perform particular actions, they will see, hear, and feel themselves perform that action. Synapses connecting the neurons that respond to external stimuli and those triggering the action should be potentiated. The reason for this is that the sensory neurons will consistently overlap in time with those of the motor neurons that caused the action thus triggering activity in the re-afferent sensory neurons. [1] A. Lahav, E. Saltzman, and G. Schlaug, "Action representation of sound: audiomotor recognition network while listening to newly acquired actions," Journal of Neuroscience, vol. 27, no. 2, pp. 308–314, 2007. [2] M. D. Giudice, V. Manera, and C. Keysers, "Programmed to learn? The ontogeny of mirror neurons," Developmental science, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 350–363, 2009.

An engram is where, in the brain, a pathway to a thought or memory is repeatedly stimulated causing strong interassociations. The brain automatically adjusts to turn on elements that are related to the thought or memory and tune out unrelated elements.
## How To Cite

 Zelko, Jacob. _Hebbian Theory_. [https://jacobzelko.com/05252020222041-hebbian-theory](https://jacobzelko.com/05252020222041-hebbian-theory). May 25 2020.
## References
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
