+++
title = "What Are Study Packages?"
slug = "05302023184217-study-packages"
tags = ["study", "package", "ohdsi", "ohdsi", "transparency", "archive"]
description = "How OHDSI defines study packages as well as generally what these are"
rss_title = "What Are Study Packages?"
rss_description = "How OHDSI defines study packages as well as generally what these are"
rss_pubdate = Date(2023, 5, 30)
+++



What Are Study Packages?
=========

**Date:** May 30 2023

**Summary:** How OHDSI defines study packages as well as generally what these are

**Keywords:** #study #package #ohdsi #ohdsi #transparency #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available 

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

### Motivation

Building understanding of study packages across different contexts.

### OHDSI Understanding of Study Packages

How OHDSI understands study packages: A completely traceable and reproducible process in the form of software. [1]

#### Commentary

With the current trajectory of the OHDSI community, I am worried that the ambitions of "traceability" and "reproducibility" are slowly becoming less a focus within the community despite being so heavily touted. There are several concerns I personally have about this goal such as:

  * The interface between technically advanced and beginner users of studies is becoming more muddled

      * I feel this is to the detriment of the study package overall
  * More study package dependencies are shifting to opaque approaches and traceability is strongly hindered
  * Implementation within R is detrimental to the overall goal of reproducibility
## How To Cite

 Zelko, Jacob. _What Are Study Packages?_. [https://jacobzelko.com/05302023184217-study-packages](https://jacobzelko.com/05302023184217-study-packages). May 30 2023.
## References:

[1] Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics Collaborative, The Book of OHDSI. OHDSI, 2021.
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
