+++
title = "Defining Digital Self-Harm"
slug = "06202020205907-digital-harm"
tags = ["bibliography", "self", "harm", "online", "digital", "suicide", "mentalhealth", "archive"]
description = "An overview on what is digital self harm"
rss_title = "Defining Digital Self-Harm"
rss_description = "An overview on what is digital self harm"
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 7, 8)
+++



Defining Digital Self-Harm
=========

**Date:** July 8 2020

**Summary:** An overview on what is digital self harm

**Keywords:** ##bibliography #self #harm #online #digital #suicide #mentalhealth #archive

Bibliography
==========

J. Pater and E. Mynatt, "Defining Digital Self-Harm," in Proceedings of the 2017 ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work and Social Computing, Portland Oregon USA, Feb. 2017, pp. 1501–1513, doi: 10.1145/2998181.2998224.

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

This paper aims to define what digital self-harm is.

Digital self harm: online communication and activity that leads to, supports, or exacerbates non-suicidal yet intentional harm or impairment of an individual’s physical wellbeing.  It includes consuming and generating online content.  Digital self-harm occurs when a person’s behaviors are negatively influenced through his or her online activities in such a manner that these online activities lead to the infliction of non-suicidal direct or indirect physical harm to oneself. 

Traditionally, eating disorder treatments generally include individual and family therapy or group therapy. Interpersonal and cultural forces that sustain self-harm activities are scrutinized.

As a field, CSCW and HCI health research appears to unconsciously emphasize the positive health benefits of technology [1]–[3].  This unaddressed bias can have great consequences on platform design and policy and must be scrutinized.

Digital self-harm is believed to be growing at a rate that will not stop without check. [4]

### Examples of Digital Self-Harm

Pro-anorexic digital self-harm example:

> IF YOU WANT TO LOSE WEIGHT, GO ON A DIET FATTY.  ONE IS EITHER ANA/MIA OR NOT. IT IS A GIFT AND YOU CANNOT DECIDE TO HAVE AN EATING DISORDER. SO IF YOU ARE LOOKING FOR A WAY TO LOSE WEIGHT, S-S-S-S-SORRY JUNIOR!! MOVE ON, TRY JENNY CRAIG


Two different ways the language around cutting is used:

  * Normalizing behavior: attempts in legitimizing activities to deal with mental health issues
  * Pathologizing behavior: focuses on a bodily disgust with the behavior being wrong morally.

### Problems with the Internet

The internet creates an environment for reinforced strengthening of behavioral issues within an affected individual through encouragement of destructive behaviors. This sort of cybernetic reinforcement mechanism could lead to the fast and serious manifestations of underlying disease symptoms.

ED websites may have contagion-like effects on individuals investigating eating disorders prior to exhibiting any commitment to a disorder. [5] Regarding adolescents, a concern is a healthy desire for weight-loss could lead to unintended exposure of ED content.

*QUESTION: I wonder if there is a corollary definition about unintentional digital self-harm? People who are not necessarily interested in self-harm, but come into it anyways.*
## How To Cite

 Zelko, Jacob. _Defining Digital Self-Harm_. [https://jacobzelko.com/06202020205907-digital-harm](https://jacobzelko.com/06202020205907-digital-harm). July 8 2020.
## References:

[1] M. De Choudhury, M. R. Morris, and R. W. White, “Seeking and sharing health information online: Comparing search engines and social media,” in Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on human factors in computing systems, 2014, pp. 1365–1376.

[2] J. Huh and W. Pratt, “Weaving clinical expertise in online health communities,” in Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on human factors in computing systems, 2014, pp. 1355–1364.

[3] M. L. Jacobs, J. Clawson, and E. D. Mynatt, “My journey compass: A preliminary investigation of a mobile tool for cancer patients,” in Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on human factors in computing systems, 2014, pp. 663–672.

[4] C. Currie et al., “Social determinants of health and well-being among young people,” Health Behav. Sch.-Aged Child. HBSC Study Int. Rep. From, vol. 2010, p. 271, 2009.

[5] D. L. Borzekowski, S. Schenk, J. L. Wilson, and R. Peebles, “E-Ana and e-Mia: A content analysis of pro–eating disorder web sites,” Am. J. Public Health, vol. 100, no. 8, pp. 1526–1534, 2010.
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
