+++
title = "Hypothesis on Cytokine Dysregulation Worsened by COVID19 for People with ASD"
slug = "07102020174816-cytokine-asd-covid19"
tags = ["zettel", "asd", "autism", "hypothesis", "health", "mentalhealth", "cytokine", "pandemic", "covid19", "archive"]
description = "Loose hypothesis on worsening of cytokine regulation via ASD and COVID19"
rss_title = "Hypothesis on Cytokine Dysregulation Worsened by COVID19 for People with ASD"
rss_description = "Loose hypothesis on worsening of cytokine regulation via ASD and COVID19"
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 7, 10)
+++



Hypothesis on Cytokine Dysregulation Worsened by COVID19 for People with ASD
=========

**Date:** July 10 2020

**Summary:** Loose hypothesis on worsening of cytokine regulation via ASD and COVID19

**Keywords:** ##zettel #asd #autism ##hypothesis #health #mentalhealth #cytokine ##pandemic #covid19 #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

> **Note:** Be careful about conflating correlation with causation.


I have been closely examining the Hypothalamus Pituitary (HPA) axis and have seen how cytokines directly interact with it. [1] Therefore, since ASD has been correlated with cytokine dysregulation [2], it can be reasonable to suspect that as coronavirae can also impact cytokine regulation [3], ASD is a risk factor for COVID19 causing direct problems with the HPA axis leading to multiple downstream issues.

ASD has been correlated with abnormal immune function. This includes:

1. Cytokine dysregulation
2. Inflammation
3. Presence of autoantibodies

Studies show the presence of anti-brain immunoglobulins in ASD patients. [4] ASD status could also be directly correlated with patients’ cytokine and chemokine levels which cause organ inflammation [2]

There is a second phase resulting in a cytokine storm which particularly affects respiratory epithelium [5]. The storm activates cytokines IL-1-beta, IL-6 and TNFalfa. These activations aggravate respiratory symptoms. These cytokines cause damage to pulmonary microvasculature. It simultaneously affects apoptosis and chemotaxis resulting in decreases of epithelial barriers and alveolar edema *Back up references about cytokines*

## References

## References

[1] M. Marmot and R. Wilkinson, Social Determinants of Health, 2nd ed. Oxford University Press, 2006.

[2] A. M. Depino, “Peripheral and central inflammation in autism spectrum disorders,” Mol. Cell. Neurosci., vol. 53, pp. 69–76, 2013.

[3] S. N. J. Korsman, G. U. van Zyl, L. Nutt, M. I. Andersson, and W. Preiser, “Human coronaviruses,” in Virology, Elsevier, 2012, pp. 94–95.

[4] A. Meltzer and J. Van de Water, “The role of the immune system in autism spectrum disorder,” Neuropsychopharmacology, vol. 42, no. 1, pp. 284–298, 2017.

[5] Q. Ye, B. Wang, and J. Mao, “Cytokine storm in COVID-19 and treatment,” J. Infect., 2020.
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
