+++
title = "Make It Stick: the Science of Successful Learning"
slug = "07122020164149-make-it-stick"
tags = ["bibliography", "learning", "education", "psychology", "archive"]
description = "How to not only remember things but to understand work"
rss_title = "Make It Stick: the Science of Successful Learning"
rss_description = "How to not only remember things but to understand work"
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 7, 12)
+++



Make It Stick: the Science of Successful Learning
=========

**Date:** July 12 2020

**Summary:** How to not only remember things but to understand work

**Keywords:** ##bibliography #learning #education #psychology #archive

Bibliography
==========

P. C. Brown, Make it stick: the science of successful learning. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 2014.

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

The false idea that repetition improves memory traces back to the mid-1960's. Psychologist Endel Tulving, from the University of Toronto, tested people on their ability to remember lists of common English nouns.

### Feedback

Feedback has been extensively studied. [1] It can lead to the following conditions:

  * Strengthen effects of testing
  * Be of greater benefit if it's slightly delayed
  * Enhance positive and reduces the negative effects of multiple choice testing.

Frequent immediate feedback can be detrimental to long-term learning for motor skills at it provides a crutch during practice that isn't present during the test. [2]

### Effects of Quizzing

Quizzing produced a significant improvement relative to no quizzing or directed review of target concepts on unit exams and on cumulative semester and end-of-year exams. A well-placed review quiz produced benefits on the exams that were as robust as several repeated quizzes in some cases.

This phenomenon was first researched at Columbia Middle School. [3], [4] They reported well-controlled experiments on the benefits of quizzing for middle school students' performances on classroom exams in social studies and science.

### Characteristics of Learning

1. Learning needs memory
2. Learning is a lifelong endeavor.
3. Learning is an acquired skill; often counterintuitive.

### Notable Quotes

> *If you’re good at learning, you have an advantage in life.*


## References

## References

[1] A. C. Butler and H. L. Roediger, “Feedback enhances the positive effects and reduces the negative effects of multiple-choice testing,” Mem. Cognit., vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 604–616, 2008.

[2] A. W. Salmoni, R. A. Schmidt, and C. B. Walter, “Knowledge of results and motor learning: A review and critical reappraisal.” Psychol. Bull., vol. 95, no. 3, p. 355, 1984.

[3] M. A. McDaniel, P. K. Agarwal, B. J. Huelser, K. B. McDermott, and H. L. Roediger III, “Test-enhanced learning in a middle school science classroom: The effects of quiz frequency and placement.” J. Educ. Psychol., vol. 103, no. 2, p. 399, 2011.

[4] H. L. Roediger III, P. K. Agarwal, M. A. McDaniel, and K. B. McDermott, “Test-enhanced learning in the classroom: Long-term improvements from quizzing.” J. Exp. Psychol. Appl., vol. 17, no. 4, p. 382, 2011.
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
