+++
title = "Direct Self-Harm"
slug = "07122020185239-direct-self-harm"
tags = ["zettel", "direct", "self", "harm", "mentalhealth", "illness", "mental", "archive"]
description = "An overview of direct self harm and how it differs from other types of self-harming behaviors"
rss_title = "Direct Self-Harm"
rss_description = "An overview of direct self harm and how it differs from other types of self-harming behaviors"
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 7, 12)
+++



Direct Self-Harm
=========

**Date:** July 12 2020

**Summary:** An overview of direct self harm and how it differs from other types of self-harming behaviors

**Keywords:** ##zettel #direct #self #harm ##mentalhealth #illness #mental #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

Direct self-harm is defined as the deliberate, direct destruction or alteration of body tissue without conscious suicidal intent, but resulting in injury severe enough for tissue damage to occur [1]. 

Examples are of Direct Self Harm are:

  * Cutting, burning, scratching, and hitting of oneself [2]
  * Skin bleaching [3]
  * Hair-pulling [4]
  * Ingesting hazardous chemicals [5]

The term "direct self-harm" is often used interchangeably with the terms self-injury [6], self-mutilation [7], and self-wounding [8]. Despite the exact wording, the distinction of direct self-harm is that it is non-suicidal but does cause direct injury to the body.
## How To Cite

 Zelko, Jacob. _Direct Self-Harm_. [https://jacobzelko.com/07122020185239-direct-self-harm](https://jacobzelko.com/07122020185239-direct-self-harm). July 12 2020.
## References

[1] A. R. Favazza, “The coming of age of self-mutilation,” J. Nerv. Ment. Dis., vol. 186, no. 5, pp. 259–268, 1998.

[2] B. Møhl, P. La Cour, and A. Skandsen, “Non-suicidal self-injury and indirect self-harm among Danish high school students,” Scand. J. Child Adolesc. Psychiatry Psychol., vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 11–18, 2014.

[3] C. A. Charles, “Skin bleaching, self-hate, and black identity in Jamaica,” J. Black Stud., vol. 33, no. 6, pp. 711–728, 2003.

[4] B. A. Iwata, M. F. Dorsey, K. J. Slifer, K. E. Bauman, and G. S. Richman, “Toward a functional analysis of self-injury,” J. Appl. Behav. Anal., vol. 27, no. 2, pp. 197–209, 1994.

[5] K. L. Gratz, “Measurement of deliberate self-harm: Preliminary data on the Deliberate Self-Harm Inventory,” J. Psychopathol. Behav. Assess., vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 253–263, 2001.

[6] E. D. Klonsky, “The functions of deliberate self-injury: A review of the evidence,” Clin. Psychol. Rev., vol. 27, no. 2, pp. 226–239, 2007.

[7] A. R. Favazza and R. J. Rosenthal, “Diagnostic issues in self-mutilation,” Psychiatr. Serv., vol. 44, no. 2, pp. 134–140, 1993.

[8] D. Tantam and J. Whittaker, “Personality disorder and self-wounding,” Br. J. Psychiatry, vol. 161, no. 4, pp. 451–464, 1992.
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
