+++
title = "Famous Quotes"
slug = "07222020181007-famous-quotes"
tags = ["knowledge", "quotes", "archive"]
description = "A collection of favorite quotes from books and people."
rss_title = "Famous Quotes"
rss_description = "A collection of favorite quotes from books and people."
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 7, 22)
+++



Famous Quotes
=========

**Date:** July 22 2020

**Summary:** A collection of favorite quotes from books and people.

**Keywords:** #knowledge #quotes #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

### Quotes Regarding Knowledge

> "There are known knowns; there are things we know that we know. There are known unknowns; that is to say, there are things that we now know we don’t know. But there are also unknown unknowns — there are things we do not know we don’t know." - Secretary of State, Donald Rumsfeld


> "When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth." - Sherlock Holmes, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle


An inductive approach to knowledge that Sherlock Holmes takes to solve puzzles and problems.

### Quotes Regarding Books

> "Dorian Gray had been poisoned by a book" - Oscar Wilde, [The Picture of Dorian Gray](/04202022021854-picture-dorian-gray.md)


This quote gets at how the influence of a book can corrupt an individual or push someone further to corruption. In Gray's case, he was already corrupted but the book further pushed him beyond what evil he was already capable of pursuing.

### Quotes Regarding Fame

> "For there is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about." - Oscar Wilde, [The Picture of Dorian Gray](/04202022021854-picture-dorian-gray.md)


When you attain fame, at least you are talked about – whether positively or negatively. But to not be talked about means no one even knows who you are.

## References

## References:
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
