+++
title = "Contact Tracing"
slug = "12282020023843-contact-tracing"
tags = ["zettel", "cdc", "contact", "tracing", "intervention", "archive"]
description = "Tracking contact between individuals of interest."
rss_title = "Contact Tracing"
rss_description = "Tracking contact between individuals of interest."
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 12, 27)
+++



Contact Tracing
=========

**Date:** December 27 2020

**Summary:** Tracking contact between individuals of interest.

**Keywords:** ##zettel #cdc #contact #tracing #intervention #archive

Bibliography
==========

Not Available

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

Contact tracing is the identification, monitoring, and support of individuals who have been exposed to an infected person and were possibly infected. [1]

Case investigation: identifying and investigating persons with confirmed and probable diagnoses. [1]

**Close contact:** any individual within 6 feet of an infected person for at least 15 minutes starting from 48 hours before the person began feeling sick until the time the patient is isolated.

Steps for contact tracing:

1. Case investigation: have patient recall everyone that they may have exposed themselves to while infectious.
2. Contact tracing: notify exposed individuals of their potential exposure, while preserving privacy
3. Contact support: Educate, inform, and support exposed persons about their risk, steps to protect others, and to watch for sickness illness.
4. Self-quarantine: Contacts are encouraged to stay home and maintain social distance from others until 14 days after their last exposure to the infected patient, in case they also become ill.
## How To Cite

 Zelko, Jacob. _Contact Tracing_. [https://jacobzelko.com/12282020023843-contact-tracing](https://jacobzelko.com/12282020023843-contact-tracing). December 27 2020.
## References

[1] Centers for Disease Control, “Contact Tracing - CDC’s Role and Approach.” Aug. 10, 2020.
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
