+++
title = "From Single-Trial EEG To Brain Area Dynamics"
slug = "12312020235220-single-trial-eeg"
tags = ["bibliography", "eeg", "brain", "data", "ica", "archive"]
description = "Modeling brain EEG using EEGLAB on a Go/Nogo Dataset to model brain activity"
rss_title = "From Single-Trial EEG To Brain Area Dynamics"
rss_description = "Modeling brain EEG using EEGLAB on a Go/Nogo Dataset to model brain activity"
rss_pubdate = Date(2020, 12, 31)
+++



From Single-Trial EEG To Brain Area Dynamics
=========

**Date:** December 31 2020

**Summary:** Modeling brain EEG using EEGLAB on a Go/Nogo Dataset to model brain activity

**Keywords:** ##bibliography #eeg #brain #data #ica #archive

Bibliography
==========

A. Delorme, S. Makeig, M. Fabre-Thorpe, and T. Sejnowski, "From single-trial EEG to brain area dynamics," Neurocomputing, vol. 44–46, pp. 1057–1064, Jun. 2002, doi: 10.1016/S0925-2312(02)00415-0.

Table of Contents
=========

\toc

### Materials and Methods

EEG data from rapid go/nogo visual categorization via natural photographs [1] Though the task involved complicated visual processing, averaged EEG epochs for target and non-target stimuli differed greatly as early as 150 ms after stimulus onset. It appeared to involve automated processing in the visual system.[2] *QUESTION: What is a go/nogo visual categorization task?*

**EEG inverse problem:** reconstructing intracranial brain sources from collected signals.Disparate EEG processes generally overlap in time and space. They become intertwined in scalp electrode recordings. [3]

Subjects were presented pictures for 20 ms at random intervals between 1.8–2.2s. Half of the pictures were animals. Subjects released a held button when an animal was observed. Subject accuracy was 94% for correct responses. Median reaction time was 440 ms
## How To Cite

 Zelko, Jacob. _From Single-Trial EEG To Brain Area Dynamics_. [https://jacobzelko.com/12312020235220-single-trial-eeg](https://jacobzelko.com/12312020235220-single-trial-eeg). December 31 2020.
## References

[1] M. Fabre-Thorpe, A. Delorme, C. Marlot, and S. Thorpe, “A limit to the speed of processing in ultra-rapid visual categorization of novel natural scenes,” J. Cogn. Neurosci., vol. 13, no. 2, pp. 171–180, 2001.

[2] S. J. Thorpe and M. Fabre-Thorpe, “Seeking categories in the brain,” Science, vol. 291, no. 5502, pp. 260–263, 2001.

[3] S. Thorpe, D. Fize, and C. Marlot, “Speed of processing in the human visual system,” nature, vol. 381, no. 6582, pp. 520–522, 1996.
## Discussion: 

{{ addcomments }}
